Sort
Problem to Solve

Recall from lecture that we saw a few algorithms for sorting a sequence of numbers: selection sort, bubble sort, and merge sort.

    Selection sort iterates through the unsorted portions of a list, selecting the smallest element each time and moving it to its correct location.
    Bubble sort compares pairs of adjacent values one at a time and swaps them if they are in the incorrect order. This continues until the list is sorted.
    Merge sort recursively divides the list into two repeatedly and then merges the smaller lists back into a larger one in the correct order.

In this problem, you’ll analyze three (compiled!) sorting programs to determine which algorithms they use. In a file called answers.txt in a folder called sort, record your answers, along with an explanation for each program, by filling in the blanks marked TODO.
Distribution Code

For this problem, you’ll need some “distribution code”—that is, code written by CS50’s staff. Provided to you are three already-compiled C programs, sort1, sort2, and sort3, as well as several .txt files for input and another file, answers.txt, in which to write your answers. Each of sort1, sort2, and sort3 implements a different sorting algorithm: selection sort, bubble sort, or merge sort (though not necessarily in that order!). Your task is to determine which sorting algorithm is used by each file. Start by downloading these files.
Download distribution files

Open VS Code.

Start by clicking inside your terminal window, then execute cd by itself. You should find that its “prompt” resembles the below.

$

Click inside of that terminal window and then execute

wget https://cdn.cs50.net/2024/fall/psets/3/sort.zip

followed by Enter in order to download a ZIP called sort.zip in your codespace. Take care not to overlook the space between wget and the following URL, or any other character for that matter!

Now execute

unzip sort.zip

to create a folder called sort. You no longer need the ZIP file, so you can execute

rm sort.zip

and respond with “y” followed by Enter at the prompt to remove the ZIP file you downloaded.
